Network Working Group                                       J. Rosenberg
Request for Comments: 3261                                   dynamicsoft
Obsoletes: 2543                                           H. Schulzrinne
Category: Standards Track                                    Columbia U.
                                                            G. Camarillo
                                                                Ericsson
                                                             A. Johnston
                                                                WorldCom
                                                             J. Peterson
                                                                 Neustar
                                                               R. Sparks
                                                             dynamicsoft
                                                              M. Handley
                                                                    ICIR
                                                             E. Schooler
                                                                    AT&T
                                                               June 2002

                    SIP: Session Initiation Protocol

Status of this Memo

   This document specifies an Internet standards track protocol for the
   Internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
   improvements.  Please refer to the current edition of the "Internet
   Official Protocol Standards" (STD 1) for the standardization state
   and status of this protocol.  Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002).  All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

   This document describes Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), an
   application-layer control (signaling) protocol for creating,
   modifying, and terminating sessions with one or more participants.
   These sessions include Internet telephone calls, multimedia
   distribution, and multimedia conferences.

   SIP invitations used to create sessions carry session descriptions
   that allow participants to agree on a set of compatible media types.
   SIP makes use of elements called proxy servers to help route requests
   to the user's current location, authenticate and authorize users for
   services, implement provider call-routing policies, and provide
   features to users.  SIP also provides a registration function that
   allows users to upload their current locations for use by proxy
   servers.  SIP runs on top of several different transport protocols.



Rosenberg, et. al.       